what do you say to somebody who wants to
want to get involved in action well I
had a vegan writing to me a couple
months ago asking my advice about doing
humanitarian work and that's very
parallel and the first thing I said to
him what it was well if you're a plumber
or a dentist then it's easy for me to
give you an answer but if you don't now
have a specific skilled trade you've
really got to start asking yourself what
do you have to offer and then training
accordingly so the point is here with
humanitarian work with something like
working on a refugee camp working with
displaced people's if you work in
plumbing or if you're a dentist it's
immediately obvious what you have to
offer to the effort and for most people
with veganism now okay if you were
already a nutritionist you already have
a PhD in nutritional science there are
certain options open to you but you know
I keep giving these kinds of specific
examples because for me that is what it
comes down to what if you're a musician
well of course you know there's there's
a very obvious road ahead of you linked
to being a skilled musician or or a
professional musician you know but for
the rest of us I mean that's ultimately
like its it's both the triumph and the
tragedy of veganism why am i studying
baking in college because I am looking
to be able to really offer some of that
to offer to offer a platform so I mean
different people starting on day one if
you've just become vegan different
people have different things to
contribute to the movement and as I've
said I think it's very unlikely that
standing in silence like at a protest
like a vigil is really what you've got
to contribute but then over time when
we're looking over the next five years
over the next ten years you know you may
not be a book publisher now you know
it's not like oh I already own a book Oh
doesn't take any particular skill you
can get involved with publishing books
for veganism you know you don't have any
particular expertise in animating
cartoons but you realize hey you know
what like the internet like Netflix is
really hungry for content animated
children's shows and we can have an
animated children's show and no not
every episode is going to be like a
lecture from Gary Yourofsky veganism but
maybe you have a you know a chiller show
where it's there as an implicit element
of why this exists and maybe
you have a rule okay twice a season the
moral of the story like once every five
episodes the moral the story is going to
be related to veganism we're being kind
of animals or something where it's
worked in from the conceptual stage so
that people have an alternative to
Batman you know when you're reaching
that larger audience you know sir I've
actually I've actually known specific
people who were successful in the
entertainment industry like that who had
to had no prior background normal it's
when they had kids and realized okay I
gotta go into making children show
students cartoons you know there's no
reason why on day one when you start
with veganism you're gonna you're gonna
you're gonna see that but um yeah I mean
it's it's hard if it were easy I
wouldn't have made 1,000 YouTube videos
talking about this and and and talking
to other people about it veganism is
partly an attempt to transform the
culture we're living in
so that cultural struggle involves
things like children's books and
cartoons and even you know challenging
you know religious authorities and
school boards my daughter goes to a
school system my own daughter where
she's forced to hurt to eat meat that's
the school rule is that all children are
forced to eat the same lunch yeah
standard in French I'm sorry in France
yeah yes it's a big deal it's a big
struggle struggle and you know if you
say that you're Hindu or you say that
you're Muslim then they have to make an
exception but they don't recognize
veganism as a legitimate reason it's
it's a real struggle so what do you want
to do do you want to get involved in
local politics and do that sir but my
point here is it's partly a cultural a
cultural struggle a struggle for
cultural change and then it's partly a
struggle for political and institutional
change and the two are linked I mean
these two are inextricable like partly
if you're advocating for your own son or
daughter in the school system you know
you want to change the culture and
attitudes the people in the school
system and you're also dealing with with
real politics and uh you know the actual
written rules and regulations for how
this works yeah and sorry but that's
that I think that does radicalize a lot
of vegans when you have a kid when you
start struggling to raise a kid instead
of dropping out of the movement I think
a lot of people are gonna double down
because a kid a kid can't fight back
that way you know a kid can't say no we
can't stand on point of principle mmm so
yeah that's a real question for a future
that's very direct and the other one I
was mentioned so I mean shout out to the
the geriatric started to vegans over 80
vegan retirement homes I mean sir vegan
you know those questions of vegan meals
and hospitals and I don't I it's really
easy in veganism to just be focused on
beautiful young people in bikinis that's
normally not who makes political change
it's normally people over 65 to make
political change those people really
matter too and we got to reach out to
and organize those people because
they'll have a lot of the staying power
in terms of in terms of making political
and cultural change yep okay good
closing statement no he says it's really
brief on this cuz but this is for me
part of the direct answer I went to a
vegan event here in Victoria you know a
bunch of vegans meet him and you know
they each person had ten seconds to
introduce themselves hi who are you and
you know I knew okay I have a choice
here I can say hey I'm the guy who bakes
bread I'm going to college and learning
about like I'm the vegan baking guy and
you know the kind of positive response
you're gonna get or I can say I have a
degree in political science from the
University of Toronto my expertise what
I have to offer is really in politics
like I know how to do this I know about
running campaigns I've been involved in
elections for City Council in Toronto
have been involved at City Hall in
Toronto and I know how negatively
that'll be that'll be perceived politics
and life are not two separate things you
know I know a youtuber I won't name her
just to be polite and she was that kind
of bikini channel that's what her was
she was about bikini and Instagram you
know and I think almost all of her
followers rather women who wanted to
have a body like her or men who wanted
to look at like a petabyte like her and
you know the real experience of life in
life and politics are not two separate
things
she went to move to Hawaii and take
pictures of herself you know looking
beautiful in a bikini on a beach in
Hawaii and guess what she found the
political situation in Hawaii especially
for the the native people is really
fraud it's really tense it's really she
gets dragged into politics and then
you're gonna react to that one way or
the other no this is my point
people in bikinis are people too are
they're not I'm not saying they're
brainless not saying anything like that
but I know like it's easy to say
well someone looks at this and says I
don't know anything about politics well
you do now you went to Hawaii and you
found out I mean Hawaii is built on
genocide your your turn your move it's
on you what do you do from here being in
Hawaii is beautiful like it's more
beautiful than I could ever put into a
video than I could ever put into a
caption like that place cannot be
embodied through anything that I create
but at the same time there's so much
darkness there that people just aren't
aware of like severe racism like the
whole time I was there I just felt like
I was did not belong fully which is like
I understand because because you were a
button yeah
just like those local people like have
had their land taken from them and like
it's being so abused by the tourism
industry and like by me being there and
by me sharing that I was there I knew
that in a way I was contributing to that
because how did I find about Hawaii
like I found out about Hawaii through
social media and I was just like this
place means so much to me and I love
this place so much that I can't live
there like I know that because by me
being there like it's not right like
this place doesn't belong to me like I
feel like Hawaii is my home like I love
that place that's taught me so much I
literally feel like I was just
deprogrammed completely and reborn there
but like that's not it
and again even like the example of
having a kid you can have a vegan who's
totally politically disengaged and
thinks no I'm happy I just have my own
little kitchen I don't get involved
thing and so that now you've got a kid
and your kid goes to school so these
things will motivate you they will they
will radicalize you and the reason is
the underlying reality is that life and
politics are not two separate things
they're inextricably bound up with one
another